Hello again, in this video, I'll show
you how you can find the weights for
your linear layer and for
your word embeddings.
To minimize these two matrices or weights
vectors, you'll have to minimize the cost,
and to minimize the cost,
you will use two techniques.
The first one is backpropagation.
Backpropagation is an algorithm that
calculates the partial derivatives or
gradients of the cost with respect to the
weights and biases of the neural network.
Remember that the cost Jay batch is
a function of the weights and biases.
The back in backpropagation comes
from the way the formulas for
the derivatives are obtained,
using the chain rule for derivatives.
Without going into too much detail, using
the chain rule involves starting from
the output layer, and then working
your way back through the layers using
derivatives that you have
calculated previously.
By the way, backpropagation is a prime
example of dynamic programming,
which you learned about during
the first week of this course.
The second technique you will
use as gradient descent,
which adjusts the weights and
biases of the neural network using
the gradient to minimize the cost.
I want to go into the mathematical details
of backpropagation or gradient descent.
But if you're interested in learning more,
check out a course on neural networks to
understand how the various
formulas are derived.
First, let's use back propagation to
calculate the partial derivatives of
the cost function that you'll
need to perform gradient descent.
You'll need the partial derivatives
of the cost function with respect to
the parameters of the neural network,
which are in this case w1, w2, b1, and b2.
The calculations are long-winded, and
in practice you'll use machine learning
libraries to handle backpropagation for
you.
So I'll just give you the formulas,
which you'll get to implement
in this week's assignment.
The derivative of the cost function
with respect to the weight
in the matrix w1 is as follows.
This is the formula for the partial
derivative of the cost function
with respect to w2, here's the formula for
the bias vector b1.
Let me pause here for a second.
In this formula,
I've introduced the 1 underscore m vector,
which is a row vector with
m elements that are all 1s.
If you are multiplying a matrix A that
has m rows by the 1m vector transposed,
you will get the column vector,
where each element is equal to
the sum of the elements in
the corresponding row of A.
Having said that the 1m
vector is introduced for
mostly formal purposes to be able
to write the mathematical formulas.
In practice, when you implement this
in Python, the easiest way to calculate
the sum of the columns is to use NumPy sum
function, without using the 1m vector.
In the sum function, you need to
specify that you want to get the sum of
the columns with
the parameter axis equal 1.
And you will also need to set
the keepdims parameter to True, so
that the results can be broadcasts
into a matrix of whatever size is
necessary later in the calculations.
Finally, here is the formula for
b2, which also uses the 1m vector.
Now for the purposes of this course,
you don't have to understand how these
formulas were derived,
you can just use them, okay?
So now that you have these gradients,
you can use gradient descent to update
the weight matrices and bias vectors.
The calculations include a learning
rate alpha, which is a hyper parameter
of your model, and here are the formulas
to update the weights and biases.
The idea is to take
the original parameters and
then subtract alpha times their gradient.
Since alpha is chosen to be small
positive number that is less than 1,
the effect of multiplying by alpha
is to reduce the amount by which
each variable is updated at each step.
A smaller alpha allows for more gradual
updates to the weights and biases,
whereas a larger number allows for
a faster updates of the weights.
So for instance, the new weight in the
matrix w1 would be equal to the original
w1 minus alpha times the partial
derivative of the cost with respect to w1,
which you calculated during
the backpropagation step.
You now know everything you need to
train a continuous bag of words model.
In the next video, you'll learn how to
extract word embedding vectors from
a trained continuous bag of words model.